---
layout: post
title: Stream of Consciousness
description: this is just for me
summary: it helps me be creative
tags: potpourri
---

##### I just want to have this somewhere I can always get to it.

This is the newest borgest alimony delivery patient. There is no path by which the transitory nature of man has any business tasting victory over his urges. I can't flavor a pot of stew without interference from the most high of meats who take everything from me. I taste defeat, sweet defeat, in my feet. Borgogne is the becoming of a new lark. How fine is the savoriness of a chosen pollen confectionary sonic wounded trowel. Can't I get any sleep?? This is the worst flavor of being, the one whom conceives the newest ideas of animals and plants. Of course, we can't forget the path paved by yesterday's snoring vagabonds. I cheese and I squeeze and I clench and destroy. Say, isn't there another tooth growing from the ceiling? Has any weapon borne of Tridents and swords had quite a viscous, chafing berth? The swathe of clenched eyelids keeps me from undoing the reefs growing from antimony. Allegory, worst Allegory, has once again been a gory glass pope.

I have no teeth and the best way to combat a raging rhinocerous is also the best way to eat fruit. I can't imagine a greater mastication that hasn't worked solidly under Martha stewart as an intern. Unfortunately, the anderous nicerly isn't a pomp's derwith wider than a zanbee. Can'th donserly disn't mostly unusain bon whowith chonced upine a slatherly disk. Whenst, I hasthn't vontered a folume snuck and I gonst to fort a dee. Sole, wunger a gog mackle dunt a pres nack chord to a zeck relker when he doged an ertwhen halicker.

Forth then, but dansk whowhen stie fogen uner tant yeslee. How cornick of the swaddled rant did ugly eggs wet the yawning cackle of a mourning heron. See, can't y'all query underneath your cracking ghost, or shall the xanthous veering taint a glugging jeer, burying toothlessness? Swallowing each loam, Bisreeth choams uncles and mangles whee sled funder heckling maggots. Gie Gie, sorth mungee dentro pot weg. Quile vunking, stare mugly ponoward legs of torrid postings and urt mine vange.

A cockling mongrel chewed slowly upon the virtue of a skunk. How ort, saith le gongrey. Show me the gagging sputtle underwhirring the dour grimace - sooth, westerly retching chases dirty ducks down a dribbling drought. Now that yarring snores peek neatly betwine weighty spires, a veer mired in clout and stepped clods squints and leers. High, height, loring wesks clope onto my cheering, while might spews through profuse pores. Aye, my muck thrusts, mired and morose.

Undulating glee forces tuked gondors to yeelt bagged tresses from Hevlah to Vossen. A cusk follows to reln a deeking tooth centered quon the zenith. Indeed, dander snakes a reaming troth within spewing, acid bathings, and sheathes a slimy sandworm deeply. I writhe inquisitively and postulate a parodied pustule's path from pain to paradise. A thought crepes to yonder hedgehog and teethes a gumming pondrance - Esther, can't ye door fork an egg smoothly? Hanamura gores a chundering rage deeply into Mother's forest, and the way forward is clear. Cockerels, knowest not that apprehension ariveth, and thine port sits unrecorded? Yore entrance blays into the eye of the void, the house begs invitation. Feel not regret, the choice has been made for you.

Ask, ask! A shout, breet, dalliance, reeking snot to show the world! I cannot fathom, no, yea, football can't stop your estimated cackle. The thought comes, goes, seeks, buries. From underneath, dirt burps a seething chuckle. Dinosaur dust, mouthless, inhales ancient air and remembers the post. My energy creeps up the staircase and slowly, cheaply, relinquishes. A duty for us all, it seems. Mine me for my jewels, please. 

Bagly boeby hombersnod gankle moska doo manko. fortnight veer fortnight into your gluttonous yawp. Googis merbly chanderson, foo smogger gonga flack. Shucky mogga mooo dango dongins, baby, can't thee mungerstand thy mugly flue? I've got a munky chunky lungerson here. Doorknob, floorhob, scoreblob, chore's slob, boars clob, your mom. Snack on a gobly gunk, ya tonky vootmer. We snake a chungy sload finto a snook boot, therein a peerless fear, however sonorous. Weeping, we peer an ear and wrangle mangled bagels. Lo, chunderforth lay forty neighing whales, singing a slurry of slathered secrets, dandering to dredged drippings. Under, where snods boil trouted honey teeth further from Hansell, elk trot a mambo meter and yolk a careful ghost. White failures slay bundering quandraries to acquiecse a monarch's murder, to forgive bumbled business. Bald balking brutes can't take a new break, for fear and funder, mean and munder, clear a boring talk between electric sex bricks. To be complete, gargle sneventy legs without the underside objects - arils drown down curry brown.

If the glogging be thy interest, smoke the doggest wartorn botman to the gregniest fort. Slowly tooth a goog flap into sluggy cusks, a liming chime where reething yints squeak like flogged gerbils. Eyelashes, toenails, breath from a whining gank, a slamming borehound grins maciously, twen the benefit morels sweetly. Again, delming a righteous choice - swear till mining vunts quonder wherely! 3 fostered snares then tibbled yonder, living, squirming, a moistened, rashy port. Discomfort? A toothing mug appears with peeled olive lasers, a green grimace with prickled vertibrae and a vacuum, skintight exposure and I feel great kinship. Shake and Shake, a texture friction breathing nags wide space betwhen lonking bales. Sneaking whispers tickle the corn, their ears never hear.