---
layout: post
title: The "Metaverse" and the Future
description: neutral ruminations upon the years to come
summary: Where there's money, there is the future
tags: life tech ruminations
---

##### I've been thinking a lot about the future recently.

Facebook's recent annoucement of its changing focus to the "metaverse", reflected in the parent company's name change to Meta, leads me personally to feel just a touch of existential angst. I think about certain folks who were born in the 1890's, who were still broadly using horses as their exclusive means of transport in their childhood, and by the end of their lives saw man's first steps on the moon on television. To zoom out to this scope and ponder the implications for 90s kids like me is monumental, ego-killing, and a little scary. Though at this point the concept of a "metaverse" rests pretty squarely in the goofy hands of [one of the top 3 most memeable humans I know of](https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&url=https%3A%2F%2Fr-dankmemes.tumblr.com%2Fpost%2F667338188572999680&psig=AOvVaw0ySgk0tdtZR0jIpOFCEojV&ust=1637420895488000&source=images&cd=vfe&ved=0CAsQjRxqFwoTCNjzl6rapPQCFQAAAAAdAAAAABAD), I would wager that _The Zucc_'s vision for the future is at least in agreement with the general direction of history, certainly the history that I have personally witnessed. There are numerous hot takes I've consumed that take one of two similar but distinct on the subject: either [the concept of a "metaverse" is not new and has never worked before so it won't work now and is therefore bad](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2021/10/facebook-metaverse-was-always-terrible/620546/), or [the "metaverse" is probably fun and cool and good and probably will be safe and helpful and profitable probably](https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-amazing-things-youll-do-in-the-metaverse-and-what-it-will-take-to-get-there-11634396401) - however, the number of articles you'll find upon googling the word "metaverse" that have one of these theses is vastly outnumbered by a third type of article that has a title that sounds something like, "7 reasons you should invest in the metaverse! #3 has doctors **reeling**!" This fact lends weight to my personal take on the future of the metaverse:

#### It's likely that some form of the metaverse is coming, because 1. that's where money is going, and 2. it has the potential to solve many of the problems that the youngest generation cares most deeply about.

I'm doubtful that it will be the exclusive work of Facebook's (_Meta's_, sorry) hands, but I find it very likely that some variation on the idea of a metaverse will come to fruition and find mainstream success. There are a few moderately successful metaverse "prototypes", such as Second Life and VRChat, which I also think have the capability of establishing a fully-realized vision of the metaverse (and with less legwork!), but Meta's ubiquity, mountains of cash money, giant work force, and the fact that they own Oculus all contribute to a unique capability to see 'ol Zuck's vision to completion as well. To explain this opinion, let's do some exhuming.
___
Think for a moment about the cartoon The Jetsons. If you're not familiar with the show itself, you're certainly familiar with its raison d'etre; Hi, it's the 60s and the space race is going on so here's a family sitcom cartoon that is set in _the future_, complete with [googie architechture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Googie_architecture) and flying cars and [food pills](https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20120221-food-pills-a-staple-of-sci-fi), all out in **space**! There's a couple things the show wasn't so far off on, but we can confidently say that the majority of the postulations that The Jetsons and other media of its ilk made were pretty short-sighted, and were mostly a reflection of their times, serving as fuctional caricatures of the moment they existed in - their "future" looked an awful lot like their present. Then the 70s and 80s came along and began building what was to become the internet, which, over the course of 30-40 years, entered the mainstream and changed everything. Of course, something like the modern internet would've been unfathomable as a deciding factor in the path of the future in the 60s; you might argue that very _very_ few people saw the power of the internet before it became broadly accessable in the early-mid 90s. No, the people of the Jetsons' era looked at the present to determine the future, as man is wont to do - we're concerned about the world's ability to feed a growing population, so we have food pills to accomodate. We see massive planes shoot into space - it's only a matter of time before our cars follow suit. We've just been introduced to the idea of robots and how they can be made to do things unpleasant or unsafe for us - it's only logical that we'll invite them into our homes so they can plunge our toilets for us. But we didn't end up pursuing a lot of these things, not because technology hasn't kept up or due to a lack of ambition, but for a bunch of mundane reasons: being hard to teach or regulate, or plain impracticality, or even the overestimation of the altruism of a "futuristic" society. You'll notice, however, these mundane reasons that stopped us from fulfilling these futuristic fantasies happen to apply equally or moreso to the most historically important thing that has appeared in pretty much any potential reader's lifetime, and which I've already made reference to: the internet. For all its impracticality, and impossibility to regulate, and potential to empower, encourage, and engage the darkest parts of our psyche, it has yet been, debatably, one of the most important and influential inventions of the last century, maybe longer. So the question, then, is this: what is responsible for the flourishing of the internet and the languishing of the flying car, and further, the direction of history in general? 1 little word: ***MONEY***. 

> An investment in knowledge pays the best interest.
>
> --Ben Franklin

I'm under no impression that this is, y'know, rocket science, or even that it's a particularly novel idea, but I think pieces of media like The Jetsons, CyberPunk 2077, Ender's Game, Black Mirror, Eureka, Futurama, and a million other examples are proof that this isn't the way, broadly, that people think about the future. It seems to be that we're more tempted to let the hazy mirror of the lexicon of pop culture - existing media and popular scientists, pundits, and talking heads - tell us what the future will be like. <sub>(It also seems that we really really dig the idea of a dystopian, apocalyptic type of future scenario, which is a morbidly fascinating topic for another day. :grimacing:)</sub> As I have alluded to already, history tends to demonstrate more of a proclivity toward leaning into the outcomes which are most profitable for the high castes of society, because those profits allow the powerful to remain powerful, generally speaking. We can trace this all the way back to mankind's transition from the hunter-gatherer lifestyle to an agricultural one, when a few prudent proto-humans realized that by cultivating grain and converting that grain to beer, they could exert control over their fellow neanderthals by becoming the gatekeepers of pleasure. You can obviously trace this sort of activity through history, through the rising and falling of kingdoms, and specifically, through how technology develops to enable and catalyze profitability and therefore expansion of and control over the populace. A few historical examples - the development of the wheel by the ancient Sumerians not only allowed for the building of chariots to give soldiers a competetive edge in combat for expanding and defending territory, but also enabled faster transport, easier and more efficient farming, and the development of derivative technologies, such as the windmill - all of which serve to empower the Sumerian leaders to expand and subjugate more effectively. Jumping forward a few thousand years, consider the layered benefit to the powers that be of flying technology - it was practially moments after the Wright brothers' fateful 12 seconds of powered flight on December 17, 1903 that the muckamucks of the world concieved of its applications for industry, war, travel, and luxury. In both these circumstances, the develoment of technology and the course of history broadly was decidedly **NOT** driven by idealizing, or reflecting, or the reduction of burden, or the improvement or prolongment of existing trends, or social equity, or world peace, or altruism, or the good of mankind, but instead by keeping the strong, strong, and the rich, rich, and the poor and weak, poor and weak. You may detect some cynicism here; that is intended, but it must also be remembered that the cynical lens is a fisheye, missing details in the periphery. In spite of the fact that power and profit are the true drivers, and the regularity of these developments having consequences for the little man, there has paradoxically been a lot of positive collateral damage which has served to benefit the whole of mankind. This must be remembered alongside the frequency with which the actions of the highest up have had big consequences for the highest up, which may not be as regular as would seem fair to you or me, but is not insignificant. I tend to think that it's important to temper big, yucky worldviews like this one by viewing them through a wholistic, optimistic, realistic lens (this should probably also apply vice-versa as well) in order to maintain sanity. 

Back to the topic and my second point, the other thing I see propelling us into a "***Metaverse Future&trade;***" is the fact that the metaverse would be able to functionally abstract away every social and presentational discrepancy/disconnect that our flesh imposes upon us. Keeping in mind that this is predicated upon any given individual's capability of _accessing_ the metaverse, which would certainly be a matter that bears addressing in this hypothetical future - Think for a moment about some 